# How hypergraph-to-graph conversion affects cooperative working visualization: A Multi-metric evaluation



**Abstract.** It is commonplace to use hypergraphs to represent cooperative work, since hypergraphs explicitly capture complex interactions and connections, enabling researchers to analyze with ease. Nonetheless, hypergraphs are usually chaotic due to sophisticated relations between vertices. It is vital to find out a decent layout for a hypergraph in order to mitigate the problem. The layout of a hypergraph is usually done by converting the hypergraph into a simple graph and then using the layout algorithm of a normal graph to complete it. A plethora of conversion methods exist; nonetheless, they have drawbacks depending on the context, which may affect the interpretation of the hypergraph. Therefore, it is necessary to investigate which method prevails over other methods in specific circumstances. In our study, we propose an appraisal frame work in which we use qualitative and quantitative metrics including 1) concavity, 2) planarity, 3) coverage rate of the plane, 4) regularity, and 5) cognitive capacity of data to assess the performance of each conversion method in terms of layout quality and effectiveness. The results show that while no method is ideal for all situations, certain methods, such as Centroid-single, perform well in general. Researchers can use our experiment results to select the optimal method tailored to their specific dataset and circumstances. This paper serves as researchers and practitioners choose the most suitable conversion method for their research.
